---
layout: page
title: "About"
description: "Workshop Background"
group: navigation
---

{% include JB/setup %}

## Workshop overview:

**Summary:** The focus of this workshop is to develop an analytical framework that a) combines multiple existing models of the soil carbon cycle into a “super model” and b) synthesizes measurements of soil carbon pools and fluxes and potential factors governing these fluxes (e.g., microbial activity). Because of the variety of assumptions used both in the modeling and measurement of these belowground processes, it will be important to have a diverse group to help identify potentially important mechanisms, models, and data sources. There have already been efforts underway (e.g., development of the soilR package) to that compile different soil carbon models, which may provide a starting point for developing a supermodel that integrates these different models, which represent different assumptions about the primary mechanisms affecting soil carbon cycling. A long term objective is to provide a new framework for modeling soil carbon dynamics at variable scales under different climate, soil, management, and/or disturbance scenarios, and to rigorously evaluate the explanatory and predictive power of next-generation models and model ensembles.

**Issue:** The soil carbon pool is a heterogeneous mixture of organic molecules with mean residence times from hours to millennia. Many models exist that describe soil carbon dynamics and the components of the soil carbon cycle, such as, but not limited to, decomposition of soil organic matter (SOM), priming effects, and soil respiration. Multiple soil carbon cycle models may share a similar structure, with various carbon pools and fluxes between, into, and out of each pool. However, the specific submodels (or equations) used to describe these components may differ greatly between models or ecosystems. We will construct a “super model” that incorporates these models as unique submodels that represent alternative hypotheses about the underlying mechanisms and/or key drivers affecting the particular process of interest. For example, consider models of SOM decomposition; some may be represented by non-linear temperature-controls on decomposition, others may incorporate threshold effects of soil moisture and/or texture, while others may represent a more detailed description of microbial activity and the chemical composition of organic inputs to the soil carbon pool.

**Objective:** The goal of this working group is to develop the conceptual framework for a more flexible modeling approach that can simultaneously accommodate alternative submodels (i.e., alternative hypotheses about an underlying mechanism) within an overarching modeling framework. As part of this, we will identify potential data-model integration methods for informing this super model with diverse data sources as well as identify potentially useful data sources. Potential approaches to implementing the super model may include a Bayesian approach that utilizes reversible jump MCMC or alternative model averaging methods to update the relative importance of different submodels or alternative mechanisms. And, we hope to identify other potential approaches during the workshop.

**Application:** As a “case study,” we will develop the initial conceptual framework in the context of understanding potential shifts in the importance of different soil carbon cycling mechanisms. We propose to focus on systems that have been exposed to perturbations that have likely altered components of the carbon cycle, thus providing the opportunity to explore potential shifts in the dominant drivers of soil carbon processes. Moreover, we wish to understand how the importance of different mechanisms may vary across extremes in climate, soils, and land management practices. For example, one may expect that the role of soil moisture may be relatively more important than temperature in an arid ecosystem, whereas one may expect the opposite to occur in a temperate forest, and other processes (e.g., nutrient stoichiometry and microbial activity) may be more important in a tropical system. Thus, submodels that are strongly driven by soil water may emerge as having relatively high importance in an arid system, but submodels incorporating microbial biomass and extracellular enzyme activity may carry high importance in a tropical forest. While addressing soil carbon cycling, the super model approach is expected to be applicable to a range of problems where mechanisms may differ across and between ecosystems.
